DOCS-1210: Add pinout table reference and notes for launching `jetson-io.py` to Jetson Setup guides (#1996)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/installation/prepare/jetson-agx-orin-setup.md

## Serial Communication Protocol Tips

To change the pins that are in use for modes of serial communication, launch <file>jetson-io.py</file> with the following commands:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
cd ~
sudo /opt/nvidia/jetson-io/jetson-io.py
```

In the interactive menu that opens, select **Configure Jetson 40 Pin Header** and **Configure header pins manually** to select and deselect pins to enable use.
For a Jetson AGX Orin, reference the following:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Data Sheet ID | GPIO Header Pin | Viam Bus ID | `jetson-io.py` ID | `/dev` Path ID | Notes |
| ------------- | --------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ----- |
| I2C_GP2_DAT, I2C_GP2_CLK | 3, 5 | `7` | `i2c2` | `/dev/i2c-2` | |
| I2C_GP5_DAT, I2C_GP5_CLK | 27, 28 | `1` | `i2c8` | `/dev/i2c-8` | |
| SPI1_DOUT, SPI1_DIN, SPI1_SCK, SPI1_CS0, SPI1_CS1 | 19, 21, 23, 24, 26 | `0` | `spi1` | `/dev/spidev0.0`, `/dev/spidev0.1` | Must be enabled to use SPI bus, must add `spidev` to `/etc/modules` |

> Note that I2C buses do not need to be configured.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that I2C buses do not need to be configured through <file>jetson-io.py</file>.
```

> Note that I2C buses are not configurable through <file>jetson-io.py</file>.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that I2C buses do not need to be configured.
```

## Serial Communication Protocol Tips

> To change what pins are in use for serial communication, launch <file>jetson-io.py</file> with the following command:

Author: This part should be consistent across Jetson models re. NVIDIA's documentation

## Serial Communication Protocol Tips

> To change what pins are in use for modes of serial communication, launch <file>jetson-io.py</file> with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the pins that are in use for modes of serial communication, launch <file>jetson-io.py</file> with the following command:
```

Author: Sounds good, done

> ``` sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
```

Author: Done, TY

> sudo /opt/nvidia/jetson-io/jetson-io.py

Reviewer 2: Intuitively, this should be all you need. In practice, though, I've found that it only works when you have write access to the current working directory. So, `cd ~; sudo /opt...` works, while `cd /sys/class; sudo /opt...` does not. Is that worth documenting? Maybe not. but it caught me off-guard.

Similarly, `jetson-io.py` only displays its menu if your screen is large enough. If your terminal window is very small because you didn't fullscreen it when you started, nothing will be displayed until you resize your window. Is that worth documenting? Again, maybe not, but it surprised me the first time I hit it.

Reviewer 2: Yup, that's great! TBH what you had originally was probably good enough, too, and this is overkill.

```

In the interactive menu that opens, select **Configure Jetson 40 Pin Header** and **Configure header pins manually** to select and deselect pins to enable use.
For a Jetson AGX Orin, reference the following:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Data Sheet ID | GPIO Header Pin | Viam Bus ID | `jetson-io.py` ID | `/dev` Path ID | Notes |
| ------------- | --------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ----- |
| I2C_GP2_DAT, I2C_GP2_CLK | 3, 5 | `7` | `i2c2` | `/dev/i2c-2` | |

> | I2C_GP5_DAT, I2C_GP5_CLK | 27, 28 | `1` | `i2c8` | `/dev/i2c-8` | |

Reviewer 2: The I2C buses are not configurable through `jetson-io.py`. I suspect they're always-on no matter what. This part will be confusing if it's left as-is.

...OTOH, it's very useful to know that I2C buses 2 and 8 are the relevant ones, and this info probably should go _somewhere._

Reviewer 2: :shrug: It's useful to have it somewhere, I just don't think it goes with the `jetson-io.py` stuff. I guess maybe leave it here with that blank ID and all that good enough? People will figure it out.

Author: Upon further reflection I am adding as a note that they're not configurable before pointing to the nvidia documentation underneath the table-- hopefully that will clear up some confusion

> | SPI1_DOUT, SPI1_DIN, SPI1_SCK, SPI1_CS0, SPI1_CS1 | 19, 21, 23, 24, 26 | `0` | `spi1` | `/dev/spidev0.0`, `/dev/spidev0.1` | Must be enabled, must add `spidev` to `/etc/modules` |

Reviewer 2: For your reference, this is copied straight from `jetson-io.py` on an Orin AGX:
```
 |                Select desired functions (for pins):                |
 |                                                                    |
 |                [ ] can0           (29,31)                          |
 |                [ ] can1           (33,37)                          |
 |                [ ] dmic3          (16,32)                          |
 |                [ ] dmic5          (16,32)                          |
 |                [ ] extperiph4_clk (7)                              |
 |                [ ] i2s2           (12,35,38,40)                    |
 |                [*] pwm1           (15)                             |
 |                [*] pwm5           (18)                             |
 |                [*] pwm8           (13)                             |
 |                [*] spi1           (19,21,23,24,26)                 |
 |                [ ] uarta-cts/rts  (11,36)                          |
 |                                                                    |
 |                                Back                                |
```

> | SPI1_DOUT, SPI1_DIN, SPI1_SCK, SPI1_CS0, SPI1_CS1 | 19, 21, 23, 24, 26 | `0` | `spi1` | `/dev/spidev0.0`, `/dev/spidev0.1` | Must be enabled, must add `spidev` to `/etc/modules` |

Reviewer 2: and while I'm thinking about this, I quibble a little with the "must be enabled" line: if you don't have anything hooked up to the SPI bus, it doesn't need to be enabled. :shrug:

> | SPI1_DOUT, SPI1_DIN, SPI1_SCK, SPI1_CS0, SPI1_CS1 | 19, 21, 23, 24, 26 | `0` | `spi1` | `/dev/spidev0.0`, `/dev/spidev0.1` | Must be enabled, must add `spidev` to `/etc/modules` |

Author: Ah gotcha. Added clarification `"Must be enabled to use SPI bus"`, is that correct?

> | SPI1_DOUT, SPI1_DIN, SPI1_SCK, SPI1_CS0, SPI1_CS1 | 19, 21, 23, 24, 26 | `0` | `spi1` | `/dev/spidev0.0`, `/dev/spidev0.1` | Must be enabled, must add `spidev` to `/etc/modules` |

Reviewer 2: That's perfect! Thanks.

> See NVIDIA's documentation on [Configuring the Jetson Expansion Headers](https://docs.nvidia.com/jetson/archives/r35.1/DeveloperGuide/text/HR/ConfiguringTheJetsonExpansionHeaders.html) for more information.

Reviewer 2: :+1: Thanks for including this link! If people can get this straight from NVidia, we don't need to support/document it as thoroughly ourselves.

## Serial Communication Protocol Tips

To change the pins that are in use for modes of serial communication, launch <file>jetson-io.py</file> with the following commands:

```sh { class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
cd ~
sudo /opt/nvidia/jetson-io/jetson-io.py
```

In the interactive menu that opens, select **Configure Jetson 40 Pin Header** and **Configure header pins manually** to select and deselect pins to enable use.
For a Jetson AGX Orin, reference the following:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Data Sheet ID | GPIO Header Pin | Viam Bus ID | `jetson-io.py` ID | `/dev` Path ID | Notes |
| ------------- | --------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ----- |
| I2C_GP2_DAT, I2C_GP2_CLK | 3, 5 | `7` | `i2c2` | `/dev/i2c-2` | |
| I2C_GP5_DAT, I2C_GP5_CLK | 27, 28 | `1` | `i2c8` | `/dev/i2c-8` | |

> | SPI1_DOUT, SPI1_DIN, SPI1_SCK, SPI1_CS0, SPI1_CS1 | 19, 21, 23, 24, 26 | `0` | `spi1` | `/dev/spidev0.0`, `/dev/spidev0.1` | Must be enabled, must add `spidev` to `/etc/modules` |

Author: ```suggestion
| SPI1_DOUT, SPI1_DIN, SPI1_SCK, SPI1_CS0, SPI1_CS1 | 19, 21, 23, 24, 26 | `0` | `spi1` | `/dev/spidev0.0`, `/dev/spidev0.1` | Must be enabled to use SPI bus, must add `spidev` to `/etc/modules` |
```

> See NVIDIA's documentation on [Configuring the Jetson Expansion Headers](https://docs.nvidia.com/jetson/archives/r35.1/DeveloperGuide/text/HR/ConfiguringTheJetsonExpansionHeaders.html) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that I2C buses are not configurable through <file>jetson-io.py</file>.
See NVIDIA's documentation on [Configuring the Jetson Expansion Headers](https://docs.nvidia.com/jetson/archives/r35.1/DeveloperGuide/text/HR/ConfiguringTheJetsonExpansionHeaders.html) for more information.
```

  - Do not run `sudo apt install nvidia-jetpack` in your terminal until after `sudo reboot` has completed.
  - If your board is powered off after `sudo reboot` has completed and refuses to turn on, disconnect and reconnect the power cable.
  - It is normal for JetPack installation to take a very long time, up to an hour or more.

>  

Author: ```suggestion

```
